---
path: /catalog/2018.4.1/
id: 2018.4.1
title: Trona Pinnacles Panorama
collection: College Of Science And Mathematics
artist: Brian P. Lawler
type: Photography
medium: Aluminum
credit: "undefined"
figure:
  - id: 50854_ca_object_representations_media_135_original
    file: "./50854_ca_object_representations_media_135_original.jpg"
    caption: “Trona Pinnacles Panorama” digit
---
“Trona Pinnacles Panorama” digital photographic print by Brian P. Lawler, depicts a panoramic view of  the National Geological Monument, Trona Pinnacles, located near Trona City in San Bernardino County, CA. The monument is located at 117.375W, 35.623 N  with an elevation of 1820 ft. It is accessible by a dirt road from California State Highway 178 near the town of Trona, in San Bernardino County, California and is under the control of the Bureau of Land Management.

Lawler’s photograph depicts the unique geological feature in Trona Pinnacles called tufas, which are spires that were created back when the valley was submerged by ocean water. Hot gasses carrying minerals bubbled up through fissures in the seafloor to calcify into the tufas. There are about three miles of tufas, numbering from 500 to 100--depending on how you count them--in the valley. The tufas are primarily composed of calcium-carbonate mineral.

The photograph was taken using the GigaPan panoramic camera mount on a Canon 5D Mark III camera. The lens was a Canon 100-400 mm telephoto lens. Several hundred images were combined to create the final image.The photograph was printed on aluminum using dye-sublimation on three panels and displayed at Warren J. Baker Center for Science and Mathematics (Building 180, second floor), where Lawler teaches. Lawler has been a professor of Graphic Communications since 1999, as well as a Graphic Design Consultant, Photojournalist, and Typographer. Taken on January 16, 2015.
